Multiple Sclerosis (MS):Symptoms: Numbness or weakness in limbs, vision problems, difficulty
walking, fatigue, dizziness, and problems with coordination. || About: MS is an autoimmune disease
where the immune system attacks the protective covering of nerve fibers (myelin), causing
inflammation and scarring. It can lead to a variety of neurological symptoms. || Cause: The exact
cause of MS is unknown, but it is believed to be triggered by genetic and environmental factors,
including viral infections. || Cure: There is no cure for MS, but treatment aims to manage symptoms
and reduce the frequency of flare-ups. This includes disease-modifying therapies (DMTs),
corticosteroids for acute relapses, and physical therapy.
African Sleeping Sickness (Trypanosomiasis):Symptoms: Fever, headache, joint pain, itching, and in
later stages, confusion, personality changes, poor coordination, and sleep disturbances. || About:
African sleeping sickness is a parasitic disease transmitted by the Tsetse fly. It affects the
central nervous system and, if untreated, can be fatal. || Cause: The disease is caused by the
Trypanosoma parasite, which is transmitted through the bite of an infected Tsetse fly. || Cure:
Treatment involves medications such as suramin, melarsoprol, or eflornithine, depending on the stage
of the disease. Early detection and treatment are crucial for a good prognosis.
Human Papillomavirus (HPV):Symptoms: Most people with HPV donâ€™t experience any symptoms. Some
strains cause genital warts, while others can lead to cancer (cervical, anal, or oropharyngeal
cancer). || About: HPV is the most common sexually transmitted infection, with over 100 types, some
of which can lead to genital warts or cancer. There are low-risk types (which cause warts) and high-
risk types (which can cause cancers). || Cause: HPV is caused by the human papillomavirus,
transmitted through sexual contact. It can also be passed from an infected mother to her baby during
childbirth. || Cure: There is no cure for HPV itself, but most infections clear up on their own.
Vaccines like the HPV vaccine (Gardasil) can prevent many strains of the virus, especially those
associated with cancer. Genital warts can be treated with topical medications or surgical removal.